Pancake Flipping Simulator Evaluation

When we first started this game, we wanted to make a game that is somewhat similar to Piano Movers. We wanted players to have to grapple with a physics-based object - in our game, a pancake - and catch it to score points. However, we wanted to capture some of the difficulties involved with flipping a pancake in the air. To do so, we decided that players can decide how far up the pancake goes by holding down the left button to build up force, which gets released as the mouse button is released. To encourage players to build up more force, and make it difficult to catch the pancake, we had the game record how high up, or how long, the pancake is in the air and multiply our score by that. There is no penalty for holding for one second and letting the pancake move up a few pixels, but there is an incentive for the player to take risks. If the pancake falls, its position is reset to the middle of the scene.

The aesthetics of the game are realistic, with real photos for the background, pan, and pancakes. In terms of narrative structure, we have a very loose one. The player is a chef that is flipping pancakes. Beyond that, the narrative is created by the players’ experience. Some players may constantly fail and have to learn how to catch the pancake, others may find it easy and experiment with how high up they can go.

One of the struggles we had was dealing with github, as we made the unfortunate choice to merge scenes together and Unity did not like that. It set us back a few and we ended up having to basically redo the project and repo from scratch. One struggle is getting some of our ideas to work, as we did end up dropping one idea because we could not figure out how to make it work: that idea is for the score to only go up when the pancake is flipped to the other side. We ended up streamlining the idea so that whenever you catch the pancake, you will get points regardless of which side it lands. Speaking of sides, there was a weird bug that we had to fix to get the game working properly. If the pancake is flipped over, it will push into the pan which would cause problems. It could potentially give a very high height value and break the game. We solved this by just flipping the pancake over with a button press, and later on to when you just hold down the left mouse button.

Cooper Grimes worked on the physics for the pancake and getting sprites for the pancake and pan. Will Harris worked on the GameManager and getting the scoring and interactions with the pancake refined.

Sprite Attributions:
Pancake: http://www.clker.com/clipart-pancakes-2.html
Pan: https://www.kissclipart.com/frying-pan-png-clipart-frying-pan-cookware-627aef/
Kitchen: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Modern_kitchen_gnangarra.JPG
